Before I start modeling I'd like to bring in a few reference images just so I'd get a better understanding
of what I'm working on.
Actually before I even do that let me hit the a key and delete everything here.
There we go.
And then I'll press shift a And let's bring in an image empty blender 2.8 has some nice reference image
features here so let's just go ahead and bring in a reference image here.
And when we do let me show you what happens if I go to my reference images folder here and I'm gonna
click this icon right here and this is a good one to bring in.
I'm just gonna bring in this view right here by click load reference image you can see what happens
it comes in at the angle of the viewport.
So what we really need to do is choose what view we want to see this in and then bring it in.
So press control Z let's hit the one key and now I'm here in the front or the graphic view.
So now if I press shift a and bring in that reference image object.
Here we go.
Now he's in the proper viewport.
I would like to bring it back in the y axis just a bit so I'll hit the end key to bring up the sidebar
here and in the location and Y maybe I'll just type in five just to bring it back off of that axis off
of the center of the grid just a bit and then if I hit the one key and come over here to the object
data panel right here.
Now I can move it in the x and y so I can get him more aligned in the center and actually standing on
the grid.
So if I bring him up in the y you can see I can just click and drag in that field there and drag him
up so his feet are are standing on the x axis.
Let me bring that up just a little bit more right about right about there.
Let's say.
But also you can see he's off center a bit.
So if I click and drag on the x axis I can bring him back into the center so his.
So the center of the jacket is aligned there.
It's a photograph taken with perspective of course.
So it's gonna be a little bit off.
You can see how his leg is turned here a bit and this was higher than the other one and that's fine.
We're just going to use this as a general reference.
We're not going to get it exact to engineering specifications or anything.
Also I want to click and drag this transparency and bring this down quite a bit about like this.
I'll just actually click on it and type in point by.
There we go.
Now in addition we can also set it up so we can see it or not in the perspective view and I kind of
like to not see it actually so I'm going to turn that off.
So as we model the only time we're going to see it is when we're in that front or the graphic view.
All right.
So I think that works out pretty well.
You can certainly set these however you want.
All right.
So let's go ahead and begin.
Back in the front view let's go ahead and begin with the head.
Let's go ahead and bring in a cylinder.
I'll press shift a.
And go to mesh and cylinder and I'll come over here and just open up this window right here and currently
it's got 32 sides and I don't think we need that many since I'm planning on this to be a game character
I'm going to try and keep it fairly low poly.
So let's type in 16 here and also for the cat fill instead of just one big face on the top and the bottom.
I want to change this to Triangle fan which will split it up into triangles kind of like a PI.
All right.
So now that we have that let's go ahead and hit Z and go to wireframe and then I'll come over here and
click on the move tool here and we can then click and drag this up and then we're gonna need to scale
that down so I'll hit the S Key and scale that down.
All right let's zoom in.
I can hit the period key to zoom in and then get the S Key again and yeah you can see how the head isn't
quite aligned with the center of the grid here it's kind of turned and that's OK we're going to just
do the best we can here.
I'm going to have it kind of overlap here and kind of overlap here kind of in the same amount.
I'm gonna hit the S and the Z key and scale and the Z right.
Here we go about like that yeah.
That's about the right size I think now what I need to do is select these edges and give them a bit
of a bevel.
This curve right here is a bevel.
So if I hit the Z key again and go to solid view let's go ahead and tab into edit mode I'll just hit
the tab key and we'll then go into edit mode and we can see all the edges and the polygons and the points
of that object.
I'll press Alt A to D select everything.
And now I want to select the edges down here on the bottom first so you can see over here we've got
vertex select edge select and face select here in vertex select.
I can choose one of these and select that point in Edge mode.
I can select edges and in face mode I can select different faces.
And in addition you can just press the one two or three keys for these three selection mode.
So 1 4 vertices 2 4 edges and 3 4 faces.
So I'll press the two key.
I'll press Alt A to D select and then to select this whole ring of edges all the way around.
I'll press Alt and click here and that will select that entire edge.
Now let's go back to that front view.
I'll go to wireframe and let's Bevel this so we get that curve right there.
We're going to Bevel the edge so to go up to the edges menu and right here is the bevel.
Now we can also press control B so I'll just do that.
I'll press control B and I'll drag the mouse until we get about maybe right here.
So you can see how that curve goes basically from here to here.
So now we can add new segments I'll just click here and we'll add let's add four segments right there.
So that gives us that General curve.
All right.
Now let's do that.
On the top and do these at the same time because I think I want the bevel to be slightly different.
So I'll go back to that front view and here I'll just press control B and drag the mouse and it'll hold
those general settings that we had before.
I'll just bring it down to about right here I think.
Let's see I'll hit the Z key and go to wireframe.
Is that about right.
Well maybe I'll take the width down just a little bit with maybe don't need it quite that deep.
There we go.
I just wanted to get that up into the hair.
All right.
Now we can tumble around go to Z and solid mode.
And there we have the beginnings of our head.
We also need to extrude pieces from the top and the bottom here.
Let's go back to base mode with the three key and instead of just clicking and shift clicking all of
these what we can do is hit the C key for the circle select tool and just click and drag and kind of
paint that selection.
Then we hit the right mouse button to get out of that tool.
Now I can go back to that front view and it looks like that's pretty good.
The with there looks pretty good I'll just hit the E key and drag the mouse down to about right here
and then we go.
Now this top part let's deselect everything with all a press that see key again and select all of those.
Now we need to extrude and scale that in a bit because usually the top nub on a lego character's head
is usually smaller than the one around the neck.
So what let's do is listed E and then we'll hit the esky and we'll scale and just move the mouse a bit.
We get about right there and then I'll just hit the E key and drag up just a little bit like that.
There we go.
All right.
So now we have the head of the character.
Well we can also do is smooth it a bit so we don't have this kind of blocking this faceted look to it
where we can see the polygon so clearly.
Well let's do is right click and let's go to shade smooth right here.
Now that smooth it up quite a bit but we're getting some strange artifacts here up on the top.
So let's come over here to the object data panel again and to the normals section and I'll scroll that
down and I'll turn on auto smooth and when we do that you can see that kind of cleaned it up quite a
bit.
But what we can do is click and drag in this angle field and if I drag it all the way down that's the
way it was at zero there.
Now if I drag it up we can begin to clean some of this up.
If I drag it too far you can see we get those kinds of artifacts again.
Let's drag it down below 90 percent and see what we get here
that's pretty good.
I'm an eighty nine and we've cleaned up that edge.
That's kind of a hard edge now which is what I wanted.
But this one down here is still kind of soft.
So let's click and drag this until we get that.
There we go.
So we just needed it below 80 I guess.
Here we go.
So that kind of smooths that up quite a bit.
All right.
So in the next video let's continue on with the torso.